Computer Network - Connection between two computers.
Internet - Collection of computer networks.

History of internet - (ARPANET) - for connecting 4 places.

Topology - 

Bus
Ring - in circular manner
Star - One central device and rest all devices connected to it.
Tree - Bus + Star
Mesh - Every single computer connected to every single computer.

Types of Network - LAN / MAN / WAN 

VPN - A private network built on the internet. Allows creation of a protected network between different networks on the internet. 
      By using the VPN, a client can connect to the organization’s network remotely.

WWW - collection of all web pages and servers.

IPV4 - 2^32 unique ip addresses
IPV6 - 2^(32*4) unique ip addresses

IP Address - to which device send the data.
Port Number - Where to use that data, in which process/application. (Some are reserved ports)

// All HTTP stuff works on port 80.

ISP - Connects us with internet. Eg - airtel

ISP gives a modem which has global IP address, modem is connected with multiple devices which have their own local ip addresses. All this is through DHCP - For assigning IP addresses
(dynamic host configuration protocol)

Packet - Data is sent in form of packets. It contains IP address of sender and receiver.

Structure of Network -

How internet works - OSI Model (7 Layers)

1. Application - To which user interacts (software)
2. Presentation - (Encryption, Compression, Abstraction) Application layer sends the data to presentation layer which encrypts the data to machine level format.
                   // SSL Protocol - For encryption / decryption
3. Session - In setting up and managing connections, authentication and their termination.
4. Transport - How data will be transferred. (TCP, UDP), and transferring of data from application to network within a computer.
Multiplexing - Suppose we are sending 3 messages from different applications through same medium. Since it is going through same medium, to differentiate which message to receive in which
               application, we use multiplexing (in senders transport layer) and demultiplexing (in receiver transport layer). It uses port numbers.
5. Network - Assigns ip addresses to sender and receiver and sending data in form of ip packets. Routing happens here (Selecting a path for sending data).
6. Data Link - It converts the data into data frames and then attaches the physical address / macaddress to these frames which are sent to the physical layer.
7. Physical - Data is sent using cables in form of electrical signals.

TCP / IP Model - (5 Layers)

1. Application - Merge application, presentation, session into one.
2. Transport
3. Network
4. Data Link
5. Physical

Client Server Architecture 
Peer to Peer Architecture - No single server, computers connected to each other.

Networking Devices - 

Repeater - Operates at the physical layer. Its job is to regenerate the signal before it becomes too weak.
Hub - Its just a multiport repeater which connectes multiple wires coming from different branches.
Bridge - Operates on data link layer. Its also a repeater with add on functionality of filtering content by reading the MAC addresses of source and destination.
Switch - Multiport Bridge that boosts efficiency and performance.
Router - Device that routes data packets based on their IP addresses.
Gateway - Passage that connects two networks that may work on different protocols.

Protocols -

TCP - complete Data will reach destination, errorless.
UDP - complete data may not reach, its ok. Video conferencing
HTTP - used in web browsers. Application layer protocol built upon the TCP. It uses port 80 by default.
HTTPS - HTTP + secure. Uses SSL/TLS protocol to provide security.
SMPT - For sending mails

Socket - Gateway between process / application (any running task eg, whatsapp message) and internet.

Status Codes - Tells us whether our req is successful or not.

200 - Successfull
404 - Not found
400 - Internal server error

Cookies - Unique string.

How email works - 
Mail is sent to senders SMTP server to receiver SMTP server to receiver.

POP Protocol - For receiving emails. 
IMAP - Same use + do syncs as well.

DNS (Domain Name System) - To connect with any server, we need its IP address. For getting IP address, suppose for google.com, we use DNS, which takes the domain name and finds the IP
address. 

How it finds? 
When we first visits the website, it stores its IP address in local cache. 
So DNS first checks the local cache if for given domain, IP address is there or not.
Then it asks for its ISP for the IP address.
Then it asks to root server. (Root server means .com, .io, .org)
If not found till now, it asks to top level domain which has all IP addresses for all domain.

Checksum - To check whether data received is corrupted or not, we make a hashed code from the senders data and sends it. After receiving, we again calculate the hashed code and match it
with the previous one. If they are same, data is not corrupted, otherwise corrupted.

Sequence number , acknowledgement number - Random numbers used to make new connection between client and server.

3 way handshake - 

1. Client sends a sync flag and sequence number to server.
2. Server in response sends another sync flag, acknowledgement flag, sequence number and acknowledgement number.
3. Client again in response sends acknowledgement flag, sync number and acknowledgement number.

Routing -

1. Static routing
2. Dynamic routing - If some router changes, routing changes itself depending on it.

Routing works on IP Protocol.














